And then in step four
we're going to add support for reactive forms.
So in our file app.module.ts
in the imports section we'll reference ReactiveFormsModule.
So in step five we're going to define the form
in a component .ts file,
but here let's take a look at a little screenshot
of what our form's going to look like, a portion of it anyway.
We'll have a customer group,
and we'll also have a shipping address group.
And each one of these groups will define form fields,
first name, last name, email for a customer.
For shipping address,
country, street, city, state, zip code,
and we'll see how we actually write the API code for this
and also how we build the appropriate HTML layout.
So here's the part of defining it
in our component .ts files in our checkout.component.ts.
We declare our form group called checkoutFormGroup.
Then we inject the form builder into our constructor.
And then we'll use the form builder
to actually build the form.
So here we have this.checkoutFormGroup
equals this.formBuilder.group.
All right, so we're creating a form group
and then for the first item here we have customer,
so that's the key for this group.
And then we have this.formBuilder.group,
and then we give the actual fields here
for this given group.
So we have first name, last name, and email.
The quotes in square brackets,
that means that's the initial value.
The initial value for these form fields
will be an empty string.
And then we'll also have a method here called onSubmit.
We simply log some data.
That's the method to call when the submit button is clicked.
We'll get into more of the event handling later,
but I just wanted to show you
that's where method will reside.
All righty, so step six of laying out the form controls
in the HTML template.
So in our checkout.component.html
we define this form formGroup
and we give a reference to checkoutFormGroup.
That's the name of the property
from our component class that we just created.
And then for a customer
we have first name, last name, email.
We set up a customer group, so formGroupName of customer.
And then I simply do an h3 here for Customer.
And then I add a row for our first name field.
So I have input formControlName
equals firstName type of text.
And I simply repeat this process
for the other rows, for last name and email.
And that's the basic piece of my form,
just for this one given group.
And then also I need to add an event handler
for form submission.
So notice here, here's my form.
At the bottom I have a submit button for purchase.
And then up top I have the event handler,
or the event binding ngSubmit equals onSubmit.
So that's the method to call
when the submit button is clicked,
and we saw that coding a little earlier.
So onSubmit, we'll do a console.log
saying hey, handling submit button,
and then also I'll go through
and read some of the form data.
And now a bit more on reading the form data here.
So I do a console.log
this.checkoutFormGroup.get customer .value,
so that'll give me information
about that given customer group,
and so it'll output the data as JSON.
So if I only wanted to get just the email address,
then I could say this.checkoutFormGroup.get
customer .value.email.
So different ways of accessing the data.
And we'll use this later on
when we get into the order processing of reading that data
and sending it over to our backend REST API.
All righty, so for our checkout form,
we're going to simply repeat the process
for other sections of the form.
So we've already done the work for a customer,
we'll do a similar thing for shipping address,
billing address, credit card,
and also a section at the bottom of reviewing your order.
Alrighty, so I'm not going to show
all of the source code here in the slides
because it's really just more of the same.
I'll wait till we get into the actual coding section
of the video in the IDE,
and we'll write all of the code, all righty.
So let's go ahead and swing over to the IDE
and let's write some code.